IN
AN ERA WHERE IT SEEMS AS
THOUGH BLACK PEOPLE HAVE
INCIDENTS WHERE PEOPLE CALL THE
COPS ON THEM FOR ALL SORTS OF
RIDICULOUS REASONS, MORE STORIES
ARE POPPING UP SHOWING BLACK
INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE DOING THEIR
JOBS AND UNIFORMS FACING
CRITICISM AND THREATS OF POLICE
BEING CALLED ON THEM.
A RECENT EXAMPLE FEATURES A
BLACK FIREFIGHTER FROM THE
OAKLAND AREA, HIS NAME IS KEVIN
MOORE.
HE WAS DOING ROUTINE INSPECTIONS
INTO PEOPLE'S BACKYARDS.
THE FIRE DEPARTMENT DOES THIS IN
ORDER TO FOLLOW CALIFORNIA
FIRE CODE.
THEY WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT
CHIMNEYS DON'T HAVE ANY
TYPE OF DRIVE VEGETATION NEAR
THEM.
THEY DID THIS TO MAKE SURE THAT
THERE IS NOTHING IN THE
BACKYARD THAT COULD LEAD TO A
FIRE.
AND APPARENTLY, WHILE KEVIN
MOORE WAS JUST DOING HIS
JOB, A RESIDENT DECIDED TO CALL
THE COPS ON HIM BECAUSE HE
LOOKED SUSPICIOUS.
MIND YOU, HE WAS WEARING HIS
FIREFIGHTER UNIFORM.
LET ME GIVE YOU THE DETAILS.
THIS IS ACCORDING TO THE SAN
FRANCISCO CHRONICLE:
THE FIRE DEPARTMENT HAS
RESPONDED TO THIS SAYING:
THAT IS
FROM THE CAPTAIN DAMON
COVINGTON.
THE
TYPICALLY WHAT HAPPENS AND
I'VE EXPERIENCES WITH THE
DWP, THEY WILL KNOCK ON THE
DOOR AND LET THE INDIVIDUAL
KNOW, THE PROPERTY OWNER
KNOW, WE HAVE TO DO THIS
INSPECTION, WE ARE GOING TO GO
IN THE BACKYARD.
IF THE OFFICIALS KNOCK ON THE
DOOR, FIREFIGHTERS KNOCK ON
THE DOOR AND NO ONE ANSWERS,
THEY ARE STILL SUPPOSED TO
GO TO THE BACKYARD AND DO
THEIR JOBS BECAUSE IT IS AN
IMPORTANT JOB TO DO.
THAT IS EXACTLY WHAT HAPPENED
HERE BUT UNFORTUNATELY, HE
WAS MET WITH A CALL WITH THE
AUTHORITIES.
THE WAY THAT HE DESCRIBES
WHAT HAPPENED WHEN THIS PERSON
CONFRONTED HIM, HE IS LIKE, THIS
PERSON, YOU CANNOT INSPECT
HERE, HE KIND OF STARTLED ME.
HE SAYS WELL, WHAT ARE YOU DOING
HERE?
AND THEN MOORE RESPONDS, WE ARE
HERE DOING OUR ANNUAL
VEGETATION INSPECTION.
THEN THE GUY WHO WAS SUSPICIOUS
OF THE FIRE DEPARTMENT
PERSON SAID, HE ASKED FRIDAY.
MOORE SHOWS HIM THE ID.
A DUDE TAKES A PICTURE, LOOKS AT
IT AND SAYS THAT MOORE NEEDS
TO GET A DIFFERENT ID AND MOORE
RESPOND'S I HAVE HAD THAT
ID FOR YEARS, IT'S KIND OF DARK
AND I AM DARK SKIN BUT YOU
CAN STILL SEE ME.
AT THAT POINT YOU ARE WONDERING,
WHAT DOES THIS GUY HAVE TO DO?
WHAT DOES THE FIRE DEPARTMENT,
THE FIREFIGHTER HAVE TO DO
IN ORDER TO CONVINCE YOU THAT HE
IS AN ACTUAL FIREFIGHTER.
HE THEN GOES ON AND SAYS IF THE
RESIDENT WAS SO CONCERNED HE
COULD JUST LOOK OUT ON THE
STREET AND SEE A VERY RED
LARGE FIRE ENGINE IS RIGHT
THERE.
IF NOT FIREFIGHTER, THIS IS THE
MOST COMMITTED AND AT THAT
POINT, HE IS INSPECTING MY
BUSHES.
THIEVES THESE DAYS ARE GETTING
INVENTIVE.
THEY STILL FIRE TRUCKS, FIRE
UNIFORMS, THEY PUT THEM ON, THEY
PARKED IT IN FRONT OF YOUR HOUSE
AS LOUD AS THEY ARE, THEY GO TO
THE BACK, THEY HAVE
IDENTIFICATION THAT COINCIDE
WITH THEIR PERSON AND THE FIRE
DEPARTMENT ALL JUST A CASE
YOUR HOUSE.
THAT IS A MILLION-DOLLAR
FIRETRUCK.
IT'S SO MUCH MORE EXPENSIVE.
THEY ARE JUST TO RICH THESE
DAYS.
THE MAN WHO QUESTION THE
FIREFIGHTER SAID THAT THE
FIREFIGHTER LOOKED SUSPICIOUS
BECAUSE HE WAS WEARING WHITE
TENNIS SHOES.
THAT IS ALL IT TAKES.
BLACK SKIN, WHITE TENNIS SHOES.
HE DOES NOT MATTER IF THERE'S A
TRUCK IN THE FRONT YARD
PARKED IN FRONT OF THE YARD.
IT DOES NOT MATTER IF HE IS
WEARING A UNIFORM OR GIVES
YOU THE ID THAT YOU ASKED FOR.
HE GAVE THE ID, THINK ABOUT HOW
ANNOYING THAT IS AND HOW
PATIENT YOU HAVE TO BE TO COMPLY
WITH THAT BUT HE DID, HE
COMPLIED WITH IT.
AND BY THE WAY, ANOTHER THING,
DID NOT LOSE HIS TEMPER,
WAS INCREDIBLY PATIENT WITH THIS
RESIDENT, DID EVERYTHING RIGHT.
IF ANYONE APPROACHED ME AS I WAS
DOING MY JOB, SITTING AT MY
DESK, READING AND RESEARCHING
AND TRYING STARTED ASKING
ME QUESTIONS AND QUESTIONING MY
RIGHT TO BE THERE, AS I DO
MY JOB, I WOULD LOSE MY MIND.
WITHIN TWO SECONDS, IT WOULDN'T
EVEN, I WOULDN'T BE PATIENT
AT ALL, NOT EVEN FOR A 2ND.
I JUST DON'T UNDERSTAND.
THIS IS IN CALIFORNIA, BY THE
WAY.
LIBERAL CALIFORNIA, THIS HIPPIE
BASTION.
THE BAY AREA, THIS GUY IS DOING
HIS JOB.
I DON'T KNOW WHAT ELSE TO SAY.
HOW ABOUT THAT OFFICER KEVIN
MOORE WAS AMONG A GROUP OF
FIREFIGHTERS PARTNERED WITH THE
CITY COUNCIL AVERY AND HEROISM
AWARD IN 2008.
HE JUMPED INTO A RAVINE TO SAVE
PASSENGERS TRAPPED IN AN
OVERTURNED VEHICLE.
BUT DID HE?
AS IDENTIFICATION?
AND WHEN HE GOT TO THE BOTTOM
AND AS HE WAS RAISING THE PEOPLE
THEY WERE LIKE CAN I
SEE YOUR ID?
I KNOW YOU ARE WEARING A
FIREFIGHTER HAD YOU ARE IN
THIS
RAVINE, BUT -- IT'S A LITTLE
DARK.